# 3D Understanding
`Mar 7`

## How to solve 3D?
- local properties - cuboid, left facing(object), occlusion(region),
- reasonnig - coherent interpretation. eg. If a desk is a concave edge: no

## problem
- what is 3D output representation?
    + ? 2.5D? 3D (volumn)??
    + qualitative, quantitative  - [up vs (0.98, 0, 0.1)]
    + grouping - region

## Histroy
- early
    + assumed 'good / perfect ' geometric elements
- Statistical ML
    + Estimate surface labels. Efros, Martial, IJCV'2007
        * qualitative, 2.5D
    + Automatic photo pop-up(SIGGRAPH'2005)
    + 3D shape attributes, David CVPR'2016

- deep approach for surface normals / depth
    + RGBD, D as label (quantitative!!)
        * similar to seg: hypercolumn / FCN
    + What if no RGBD?
        * stereo. pair of points
            - estimate super pixel (which is in front, which is at the back?)
            - connect neibhboring superpixel??
            - ??????
- prediction of 3D (given image, predict voxels), output CAD like 
    + 2D 3D
        * 3D: pose(orientation) and style(3D database) of objects
        * 1. retrieve 3D? cannot directly use fc / conv5, different domain. 
        * 2. pose estimation: 2 stream (suface normal, real image). finetune on retrieval task.
    + direct prediction of 3D voxels
        * blind training? brute force
            - the output dimension is too high.
            - CNN is good at classification
        * reduce dimensionality 
            - learned embedding (Space learning)
                + should constructed the full original input (generative nature)
                + 2D and 3D projection are close.
            - TL embedding: auto encoder

## conclusion
- many ways can go, compared to seg, det.
- 3D Scene
    + Shubham Berkeley
- issue
    + amount of data is too low
    + gap between render and real image
